Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
♪ I'm on the radio, radio, radio ♪
Here on the radio! K-Eazy-E!
I'm Greg Mack. Don't forget to
join us this Friday night live.
We're gonna be jammin' to Eazy-E!
With more radio!
♪ Now disc jockeys
are playin' me in rotation ♪
♪ Hittin' number one spots
across the nation ♪
♪ I'm on the charts ♪
♪ You could go list 'em ♪
♪ But now listen, I'm on your system ♪
♪ AM or FM, I'm in power ♪
♪ You hear my record once every hour ♪
♪ So listen up to the rhyme
and percussion ♪
♪ But do this with no discussion ♪
Eazy-E is the godfather of gangster rap.
♪ Yo I got reason ♪
But you don't have Eazy-E
without Dr. Dre.
- ♪ Yo Dre ♪
- ♪ What up? ♪
♪ Do it your way ♪
♪ On the radio, you get more looser ♪
♪ Take my word ♪
♪ You're a dope producer ♪
♪ We combine ♪
♪ To put out hits ♪
♪ But jealous people,
they just have fits ♪
- That's how the shit go.
- Bad-ass.
"Ruthless" started out the gate winnin'.
You know,
"Boyz-n-the-Hood" became a hit,
so, we had to follow it up.
But we needed more writers,
so we call in a friend of
mine from Dallas, The D.O.C.
And Eazy brought Ren in.
How was that? Too slow?
I never seen a roadrunner
by the pool like this.
You ain't never seen one?
They run out here all day, man.
Animal Kingdom.
Yeah, man.
My relationship with E,
first startin' out, man, it was like...
like you can say, like a little brother.
'Cause he grew up
right around the corner from me.
What, you want me to scream?
Eazy-E, he's totally opposite
of what a lot of people think he is.
♪ To put out hits ♪
He cool, he a comedian.
He always got jokes.
But when E did "Boyz-n-the-Hood,"
it was like a shock to me,
because I'm in the neighborhood.
I'm tryin' to be an MC.
Then, out the blue, I hear, like,
"Man, who is... that's E?
You know, that's him doin' that?"
But I got the rundown
from a story how it came about.
♪ Now, I wanna turn up my box ♪
♪ And make much noise ♪
♪ And rock the party
and shock all the B-boys ♪
- Like that.
- The way...
Eazy learned to rap was
Dre having patience.
♪ Now I wanna turn up my... ♪
Aw, shit, man.
Because he was not a rapper.
So, Dre had to teach him word by word,
line by line.
♪ Now I wanna turn up... ♪
Aw, shit.
- 73 takes.
- Shit!
He'd be in there so long,
that you just be like, "I'm out, man.
I get with y'all tomorrow."
♪ But jealous people, they just... ♪
That's usually when I had to exit,
'cause I just couldn't
sit there, and just...
hear these words get butchered.
We only got till tomorrow.
That's all right. Keep going.
You can't say shit,
you little pale bastard.
And fuck all y'all. Suck my dick.
But Eric had such a...
- unique voice.
- Shit!
Man, to see Dre turn
this dude into a megastar...
Yo, yo, yo.
...it's like seeing
Dr. Frankenstein work,
or some fuckin' wizard or something.
Wait a minute. Wait a minute.
Who does it? Eazy does it.
But how does he do it?
- Longer. It gotta be longer.
- That was perfect right there.
- That was right.
- Yeah. That wasn't long enough.
- That was right!
- Got to have it a little bit longer.
Nah, that was perfect, just like that.
I think it was the perfect combination,
because we had Eazy.
He's comin' from this hardcore,
drug-dealin', street perspective.
And Cube would come in
with the more Malcolm X political voice.
You goddamn right.
The angry rapper, so to speak.
I was tryin' to be street,
but commercial at the same time,
because I wanted the record to sell.
And Ren was the hot voice
that bridged these two perspectives.
D.O.C. wrote a lot of Eazy's lyrics,
but he was always
meant to be a solo act.
So, Eazy, Cube, Ren, Yella, and myself,
we decided to create a group.
And we wanted to be
a little bit shocking,
so you listen to what
we're tryin' to say.
There was a war on gangs at the time,
which means, if you think
I look like a gangbanger,
it's a war on me.
So, we wanted to show
the world our world.
We just wanted
to put Compton on the map.
Gangbangin', crack cocaine,
Daryl Gates, the LAPD,
Reaganomics.
That was our formula.
We were just ghetto reporters.
And then Dre and Eazy pulled up one day,
and said, "We got a name for the group."
And I was like, "What is it?"
He said, "N.W.A."
And I thought, "What the fuck?
That's initials. What does that mean?"
And he was like, "Niggaz Wit Attitudes."
And I was like, "Oh, hell, yeah."
You know what I mean? It was like...
"Oh, yeah. Yeah."
That's the name for this group.
Synced & corrected by kinglouisxx
www.addic7ed.com
Dre and I were involved with Chrysler,
and we have to tune
the car to our specs,
and we wanna make sure
that it sounds right,
and Dre and I do it ourselves.
♪ You can find me in the club ♪
♪ Bottle full of Bud ♪
♪ Mama, I got the X
if you into takin' drugs ♪
♪ I'm into havin' sex,
I ain't into makin' love ♪
♪ So come give me a hug
if you into gettin' rubbed ♪
♪ When I pull up out
front, you see the Benz on dubs ♪
♪ When I roll 20 deep,
it's 20 knives in the club ♪
♪ Niggas heard I fuck
with Dre, now they... ♪
- Okay, yeah, yeah.
- I'll play you the Patti Smith.
♪ Outside of society ♪
♪ That's where I want to be ♪
- ♪ Lenny! ♪
- ♪ Baby was a black sheep ♪
♪ Baby was a whore ♪
♪ You know she got big ♪
♪ Well, she's gonna get bigger ♪
♪ Baby got her hand ♪
As the decades go on, right, Dre?
It's like really weird, because...
the... everything... the
recording process has changed.
So, everything tightened up,
you know, and...
Right.
You started makin' records,
really, in the '80s, right?
- Yeah.
With probably eight subwoofers
in a small room.
Right. I didn't meet
a subwoofer till I met you.
It's the truth.
All I knew was that they were annoying.
And you figured it out.
You cracked the code on 'em.
- That sounds good.
- Right.
I feel that, you know?
♪ We got somethin', we both know it ♪
♪ We don't talk too much about it ♪
I met Jimmy Iovine in '78.
I had made two albums,
but The Heartbreakers,
we had not mastered
the studio by any means.
And I had heard Patti Smith's
Bruce Springsteen's song,
and I really liked
the sound of the drums.
So, we flew this guy,
Jimmy Iovine, to LA.
He'd never been to LA.
♪ To live like a refugee ♪
♪ Don't have to live like... ♪
I remember landing in California.
It was 78 degrees and it was December,
and I remember gettin' out of that car,
goin' to my room,
and goin' back to the doorman,
and sayin', "Hey, man.
Do regular people live out here?"
He said, "What do you mean
'regular people?'"
I said, "Regular people!
You know, my dad's a longshore..."
He goes, "I'm a regular person.
I'm a doorman. I live out here."
I said, "Well, are there
docks down here?"
"Of course there are docks here!
"You're in California!
It's the Pacific Ocean."
I go back to my room, call
my mother and said, "Mom,
how did we get this wrong?"
We rented him a nice,
little house in the Valley.
He calls the next day to say,
"I'm too scared to stay in this house."
I go, "What do you mean?"
He goes, "I hear stuff moving outside,
and I never slept in a house before."
I go, "What?
You never slept in a house?"
He goes, "I've been in
apartments all my life.
I'm from New York.
I never slept in the woods."
And I'm like, "You're not in the woods.
You're in a neighborhood.
There's nothing there."
♪ It's all right if you love me ♪
♪ It's all right if you don't ♪
♪ I'm not afraid of you running away ♪
♪ Honey, I get the feeling you won't ♪
Next thing I know,
he shows up at Shelter Records
and he's got an engineer with him.
And I'm going, "Well, hey.
What's with him?"
I said, "He's the engineer."
He said, "I thought
you were the engineer?"
I said, "No, I'm the producer."
By the end of the day,
he had convinced me that
he would be better as a producer
than an engineer.
♪ Baby ♪
♪ Breakdown ♪
♪ Go ahead and give it to me ♪
♪ Breakdown, honey ♪
♪ Take me through the night ♪
♪ Baby, breakdown ♪
♪ Breakdown, now I'm standin' here ♪
♪ Can't you see? ♪
♪ Breakdown, it's all right ♪
♪ It's all right ♪
We sat down, and
I played him the songs I had...
He played me
"Here Comes My Girl," and "Refugee."
...and he got really excited.
I just looked him, I said,
"Get another eight songs
quick, 'cause we're done."
And he goes, "We're gonna be
millionaires," you know?
And I thought that
was the strangest comment
I'd ever heard about music.
You know?
But when you're that age,
the sky's the limit.
Jimmy became so obsessed
with getting the right
take on that song.
- I'll bet we did over 100.
- I think we should do one more.
We just were so connected.
We would work 12 hours,
and then talk for three hours.
We were thick as thieves.
And we had a plan to conquer the world.
♪ I was talkin' with a friend of mine ♪
♪ Said a woman had hurt his pride ♪
♪ Told him that she loved him so ♪
♪ And turned around and let him go ♪
When they released that record,
Jim turned into a tornado of promotion.
I wanted to have some
influence in the marketing,
because when you finish the record,
you go play it for somebody,
and they just go,
"That doesn't sound
like your last record."
And you're in there saying, "Of course
it doesn't sound like the last record.
"It's not supposed to sound
like the last record.
The whole concept is to not
sound like somebody else."
Not like everything else.
So, I started sayin', "I got
to get control of our destiny
"or else, we're handing
these records to people
that want us to sound
like what's on the radio."
He was really, really dedicated
and doing very well
on that side of things.
One thing about him is he's always
known what people to be hanging with.
♪ Don't do me like that ♪
And Stevie Nicks had shown up,
and wanted to hang out.
She had lots of people around.
That, really, I couldn't figure
out what their jobs were,
you know, and gypsy girls.
And I was just kind of
confused by it all.
♪ You can run high atop your pony ♪
♪ I know you won't fall ♪
♪ 'Cause the whole thing's phony ♪
That's "Bella Donna."
When I first met Jimmy,
we went out to dinner,
and about ten days later,
I moved in to Jimmy's house,
when Tom was finishing
Damn the Torpedoes,
but nobody knew.
I mean, certainly Tom Petty didn't know.
Jimmy didn't want Tom Petty to know
because he felt that
Tom would feel like,
"Well, I guess your interest has been
slightly taken away from my record now."
And for the next several months,
I spent a lot of time
making English muffins
with mozzarella cheese
and tomato in the broiler.
That's what we lived on.
I was the mini-baby pizza maker.
I liked him,
and he totally liked me.
I mean, we liked each other.
You know, I was an
up-and-coming record producer,
and she was a big star,
so Danny Goldberg,
Paul Fishkin, and Doug Morris
asked me to produce Stevie's first
solo album outside of Fleetwood Mac.
I wanted Jimmy
because Jimmy produced Tom,
because I loved Tom's records.
We started hanging out, and it was fun.
But Tom and I were
very, very close at that time,
and it was really awkward.
Jimmy's like, "You don't know Tom.
"Tom doesn't know you.
"And when Tom comes over here,
you have to hide in the basement."
So, I did,
because it was a nice basement,
and actually it was
a whole Rock and Roll 101
outside of Fleetwood Mac for
me when Tom would come over.
And of course,
I would be like, you know...
- Try and understand one thing.
- ♪ Lovely stars... ♪
If you make an alteration of some sort,
if we say, "Hey, you know, this is
not right, it's not exactly right.
Does not mean, okay, panic
city time, Needle Park.
- We're trying to get it right, Jim, for you.
- I know...
- Stevie... intentions are right.
- And so we can't...
- All I'm tryin' to say...
- We can't, you know, do it without talking.
Stevie, again. Again, Stevie,
this is what I'm talking about.
Everytime I say something,
it's like a lawyer.
It's like a group of lawyers,
which is completely unnecessary.
I don't feel we should try
a different high part.
Stevie, that's not the point.
- But just to be... be a lawyer.
- Okay.
You know? Okay.
Come on, let's go.
Jimmy and I would
get in a lot of arguments.
About music, about what I wanted,
and what he thought I wanted,
for instance, the single.
They didn't have a single
that was gonna break the album.
And she started coming
by the sessions quite a bit,
and she was right up front.
She goes, "I want you
to write a song for me."
And I said, "Well...
"I'd like to write a song for me.
You know, I'm... It's not that easy."
So, we had this record going,
Hard Promises,
and I'd written a lot of songs for it,
one of which was
"Stop Draggin' My Heart Around."
And I didn't see
"Stop Draggin' My Heart
Around" as a single.
I kind of put it on the shelf.
Sounded like a blues
record when he did it.
And I heard it...
like a big pop record,
with a girl singing it.
Jimmy says "If I were you,
"I would take this amazing
gift from Tom Petty,
"and put it on your damn album.
Because you don't have a single."
And you're coming out of a group
that has nothing but hit records,
so, you're gonna come out
with this beautiful record,
all with lace and veils
and candles all over it,
and no one's gonna hear it.
Next thing I know,
he rolls in and says, "Hey, I got
something I got to play you."
And he plays me
"Stop Draggin' My Heart Around,"
the same track,
with her singing.
Jimmy, you just took the song and...?
I said, "Tom, let's do the
same thing I did with Bruce."
It had worked once.
Why wouldn't it work again?
He knew that
"Stop Draggin' My Heart Around"
was a stone-cold hit.
And even more of a stone-cold hit
with Tom Petty and Stevie Nicks
singing it together.
His comeback was, like,
"Hey, this is gonna buy you a house."
And I'm, like, "Okay."
But it pissed me off
because it became a huge hit.
It blows up with him on it.
Then his single comes out,
but it wasn't a big
a hit as it should've been.
They came out at the same time.
So I think our single suffered.
♪ There's people running
'round loose in the world ♪
♪ Ooh ooh ooh ♪
♪ Ain't got nothing better to do ♪
♪ Make a meal of some bright-eyed kid ♪
♪ Ooh ooh ooh ♪
♪ You need someone looking after you ♪
♪ I know you really
want to tell me goodbye ♪
♪ Ah ah ah ♪
♪ I know you really want
to be your own girl ♪
♪ Baby, you could never
look me in the eye ♪
♪ Yeah, you buckle
with the weight of the words ♪
♪ Stop draggin' my ♪
♪ Stop draggin' my heart around ♪
♪ Ooh ooh ♪
We almost did that right.
That... that wasn't good?
I didn't tell anybody
I was goin' out with Stevie, right?
So that shit always leads to trouble.
It always leads to awkwardness with...
amongst friends and stuff like that.
And I was in over my head.
That was the beginning of a
tough time for me and Tom,
because I was goin' out with her.
We had a gigantic hit record.
It looked like hustle.
I mean, did I know that her label was
gonna drop that record
right on top of his record?
No.
But still, it was my
responsibility to have his back.
And my relationship
with Tom was affected,
and it's probably
still affected in some way
because how I handled it was wrong.
I had no idea what
I was doing socially or in life.
I knew one thing.
That every time
I went back to the studio,
if something good happened,
I felt better and my life
would get better.
It was that simple.
♪ Just like the white winged dove ♪
♪ Sings a song,
sounds like she's singing ♪
♪ Ooh ooh ooh ♪
♪ Just like the white winged dove ♪
♪ Sings a song,
sounds like she's singing ♪
♪ Ooh, baby, ooh, ooh ♪
This guy gave me my solo career
on a platter with a single
from Tom Petty.
You know, I don't think he ever
consciously did anything
to do Petty a disservice.
But he knew it would work for her.
And after everything is said and done,
he wants a win.
♪ Well, I hear you ♪
♪ In the morning ♪
♪ When I hear you ♪
♪ Every night, all the time ♪
♪ At nightfall, I hear the call ♪
♪ Of a night bird ♪
♪ I'm a few years older than you ♪
♪ Whoa ♪
♪ Whoa, baby ♪
♪ Do you know... ♪
Every producer knows that
you're only as good
as the artist that
you're workin' with, because...
that artist could either
make or break you.
No matter how great your track is,
the artist that you're workin' with,
or the writer that you're workin' with
has the ability
to make it magic or fuck it up.
♪ Dr. Dre is on the drum ♪
♪ Going rum-pa-pa-pum ♪
So we're in studio
working on the first N.W.A. album.
It was coming out great.
The group was startin'
to get shows and gettin' money.
And Eazy comes in,
and he wants me to stop the show,
'cause he has this girl group
he wants me to produce.
I'm like, "Are you crazy?
You want me to stop this to do what?"
♪ My homegirls always say ♪
♪ I'm chillin' but I rocks the box ♪
♪ And I get top billing ♪
Dre is always down for a good idea.
But it better be hot.
Not warm, not kind of hot.
It better be... the shit.
♪ I'm Baby D, on the mic my
funky beats, so what you like ♪
♪ I know you'll like me once you see
me, 'cause I'm not your enemy ♪
♪ Always happy, never sad, that's
because I'm such a bad, freaky cool ♪
♪ You're a fool, sucks
to see you later, rude ♪
♪ That's me, bustin' out some beats ♪
♪ See if you can understand MC JB ♪
♪ A sama lama lama lama
doo ma nama lama ♪
♪ See ma nama lama doo ma nama ♪
♪ Hold it, wait ♪
♪ Stop the beat,
I want you all to know ♪
♪ Who's in effect ♪
♪ Don't compare us to others,
we demand respect ♪
Turns out, we're actually
havin' fun recordin' this record.
And the money that we made
on the J.J. Fad album
helped fund a lot
of the albums that came next.
It was the first gold record
on Ruthless Records.
♪ Yeah, that's it ♪
♪ Supersonic motivating
rhymes are creating ♪
♪ And everybody knows
that J.J. Fad is devastating ♪
The interesting thing about J.J. Fad
is that Eazy wanted something commercial
to make radio stations say,
"Oh, Ruthless Records."
We're gonna be anticipating
the next record that drops,
and the next thing you know,
they slipped in that...
"Boyz-n-the-Hood."
A female group...
opened the door for N.W.A.
♪ It was once said by a man
who couldn't quit ♪
♪ Dope man, please,
can I have another hit? ♪
♪ The dope man said,
Cluck, I don't give a shit ♪
♪ If your girl kneel down ♪
♪ And sucked my dick ♪
Man, I can't believe
they just said that.
This music is incredible,
but MTV is not gonna
let any of this happen.
♪ Young brothers gettin' over
by slanging caine ♪
No... nope, that's not my son.
I was in total denial at first.
I said, "Why does
he have to talk so bad?"
He said if he rapped normal,
they wouldn't wanna listen to it.
♪ Dope man, dope man ♪
You know, it took me a while.
♪ Yo, fuck that shit ♪
It was weird, because
when we were all together,
that's not how they talked.
♪ Suck this bitch ♪
And that is Eazy all the way.
He said any publicity is good publicity.
Rhythm Rock Live.
We're on location tonight
to talk to probably
the most controversial
rap group in LA right now.
How close are you
to what your records are?
We're just as real as this gun.
See this chamber right there?
That's no bullshit.
Me, Dre, Yella...
we all were into paintball
back in the day.
We were the first black people
into paintball.
We all bought these paint guns,
masks, the whole nine yards.
Drive out to Malibu.
Only black guys out there.
Our crew was called Just Us.
Eazy bought a paintball shotgun.
Everything you hear
on our records is true.
Him and Dre decide to
ride down the Harbor Freeway,
stickin' this paintball shotgun
out the fuckin' window, and bam!
Creatin' havoc on the
motherfuckin' freeway.
Freakin' people the fuck out.
So Highway Patrol
got wind of these fools.
Ten, 15 minutes after that,
the police is behind us.
Pull us out of the car with guns drawn.
Lay us facedown on the freeway.
Really aggressive and the whole
nine, as they should've been.
They jacked these motherfuckers
like they robbed a bank.
They lucky they're alive today.
They come back to my house,
shakin' like a motherfucker, okay?
"Man, fuck the police.
Them motherfuckers,
they did this,
they put guns at our heads."
I said, "What the fuck y'all do?"
"Oh man, all we did was ride
down the street with some...
with the paintball gun,
shootin' at people's cars."
"You did what?!"
Him and Eazy was
runnin' around fuckin' up,
you know what I mean?
So Dre had to check hisself
into jail every weekend.
And as a teenager,
weekends with Dr. Dre,
you were in the club.
You partyin', the music is bangin'.
You're around hip-hop.
He go to jail, all that stopped.
So our weekends was borin'.
Bump. We was back on the block.
We was just not doin' nothin'.
So I was just mad
that all the fun stopped,
and Dre had to go to jail till Monday.
So I wrote "Fuck Tha Police,"
you know what I mean?
Because it was, like, enough is enough.
I knew it was...
the shit.
But when I said it to Dre,
he was like, "Dude,
I'm not doin' that record.
"I got to go to jail Friday.
"They gonna kick my ass up in there.
I ain't 'bout to do that."
So I ripped it out...
and balled it up and threw it away.
And my friend, Phoenix Phil
reached in the trash,
and was, like, "Naw. This is too good."
And he spread it out
and put it back in my notebook.
"You can't throw this song away."
So when it was time
to do the N.W.A. record
and we was thinkin' of all these ideas,
I waited till everybody was in the room.
And I was, like, "Man, I got a
record called 'Fuck Tha Police.'"
D.O.C. went crazy.
Whoever thought of this shit was genius.
Ren almost did a backflip.
Eazy was like, "Say it.
Let's go. Let me hear it."
Yeah, do it.
Wow. We really gonna talk
about the police like that?
I knew we had something
that was gonna be dangerous.
I knew we had somethin' that
we could potentially get in trouble for,
something the group
was really excited about,
and proud of because
of the way it sounded.
I mean, we did the whole
court thing at the beginnin'.
I played the judge, and...
D.O.C. was playin'
the lawyer on the record.
Judge Dre residing.
In the case of N.W.A.
versus the Police Department,
prosecuting attorneys are:
MC Ren, Ice Cube,
and Eazy-motherfuckin'-E.
Wait a minute. Hold it, hold it.
Order in the court.
Ice Cube, take the motherfuckin' stand.
Do you swear to tell
the truth, the whole truth,
and nothin' but the truth,
so help your black ass?
You're goddamn right.
Won't you tell everybody
what the fuck you gotta say.
♪ Fuck the police coming
straight from the underground ♪
♪ A young nigga got it bad
'cause I'm brown ♪
♪ And not the other color,
so police think ♪
♪ They have the authority
to kill a minority ♪
♪ Fuck that shit,
'cause I ain't the one ♪
♪ For a punk motherfucker
with a badge and a gun ♪
♪ To be beating on and thrown in jail ♪
♪ We can go toe-to-toe
in the middle of a cell ♪
♪ Fucking with me
'cause I'm a teenager ♪
♪ With a little bit of gold
and a pager ♪
♪ Searching my car,
looking for the product ♪
♪ Thinking every nigga
is selling narcotics ♪
♪ Fuck tha police ♪
♪ The verdict ♪
♪ The jury has found you
guilty of being a redneck ♪
♪ White-bread,
chickenshit motherfucker ♪
♪ But wait, that's a lie! ♪
♪ That's a goddamn lie! ♪
- ♪ Get him out of here! ♪
- ♪ I want justice! ♪
- ♪ Get him the fuck out my face! ♪
♪ Out right now! ♪
♪ Fuck you, you black motherfuckers! ♪
♪ Fuck tha police ♪
The FBI letter.
There was no precedent
to the FBI sending a letter,
"Please stop singing these records."
When that came through,
the news was all over that.
And then, of course,
with media and controversy,
it all just worked to sell more records.
Because N.W.A., they were like,
"No, we're gonna go right back at that.
We're gonna do these records."
Eazy was clearly a marketing genius.
He had a great sense
for what buttons to push
to create controversy
in different levels.
It became political once
these forces start comin' against us.
It let us know that
we're more than a group.
We're a political statement.
It just knocked us into that position.
I remember bein' on tour
somewhere in the middle of nowhere.
I'm wakin' up. We were asleep,
and the bus was stopped.
And I hear cryin'.
And I go to the back of the bus,
and it was Dre.
I had a call...
and it was about my brother Tyree.
Andre was his idol,
and I think he wanted
to be like his big brother.
And he had started writin' little raps.
Tyree was gonna come on tour.
But I don't think
Dre was gonna let him come.
So it was like,
"If I had let him come..."
And I used to always warn them
about cruisin' Crenshaw,
and there was a confrontation.
And this big guy, they
said he came from nowhere,
out of the back seat or somethin'
and grabbed Tyree and slammed him.
Well, I think it broke...
I think it broke his neck, and, uh...
and so, when, uh...
So, when I got back, and...
I see two men
standing at the door with briefcases.
"Ma'am, your son was
involved in an altercation,
and he didn't regain conscious."
I don't remember anything.
All I know, is that I was down
at about three blocks,
running and screaming.
Mm-hmm.
And I remember him leaving off the tour,
to go to the funeral.
He went home.
And he missed one show. I remember that.
I remember him coming in,
and that was the first time
that I had seen him cry,
except for when he was a little kid.
He didn't take it very well.
When Dre came back,
I was thinkin', like,
he was gonna be, like,
just down, you feel what I'm sayin'?
But he held it together, man.
He was strong, like, just come back
and pick it back up
like nothin' ever happened.
He was back to normal.
When he came back, it was just, like,
"Okay, let's do it.
Let's finish this tour."
But I just know...
like, I noticed that, uh,
it was a change in Dre.
Like, I think the drinking
was happening.
Like, 'cause he was
never really a drinker.
He just was heavy.
He went from that
lighthearted Dre to heavy.
You know, here he is
at the height of, you know, popularity,
and he didn't seem happy.
Every time that I felt
like I was at the bottom,
it's always been because of death.
What happens at the bottom?
It's like, you know...
It's almost like I can
identify with somebody
that's on drugs, that's at the bottom.
You just... you just feel fuckin' empty,
like there's nothin' left here for you.
It's just like, "Why
the fuck am I here?"
You know what I mean?
"And what the fuck am I doin'?
There's nothin' that's
important to me anymore."
What the longest you
been in that space though?
You're never out of that space,
especially when it comes to death.
When it comes to death,
if it's somebody that...
you really love like a brother or a son,
you're never out of that space.
You just figure out
ways to deal with it,
because...
there are still people
here that need me.
So I gotta pick my shit up and...
suck it up and get active, man.
And turn to music as an outlet
to have a place to go,
like the studio to be creative.
It absolutely, like...
it help...
get your mind out of the dark areas.
You know what I'm sayin'?
And, um...
that's my way of copin' with it.
After we finished our tour,
I had to pick myself up,
and just strive,
because the loss of my
brother, my best friend.
I was really determined
to be a success, you know?
We're buildin' from ground up,
and we have artists comin'.
We've got Michel'le, Above The Law.
We've got The D.O.C.
And me and D.O.C. had already
created a friendship and a bond.
D-O-motherfuckin'-C in the house.
Almost like a big brother,
little brother type thing.
And for me, it's like he came in
and filled this space that was missin'.
And, um, it really motivated me
to make sure that
his record was the shit.
I'm gonna be a big star one day, man.
I'm gonna buy you a drink.
♪ Yeah ♪
♪ Rastafara ♪
D.O.C. was just
incredible in the studio.
I mean, one of, if not the best at it.
♪ One, and in comes the two
to the three and four ♪
♪ Then I drop the beat I have in store ♪
♪ Lay dynamics on the top like a rug ♪
♪ Make it sound smooth
and later make a dub ♪
His position was,
"I'm not gonna cuss on my records."
♪ I am not illiterate, no, not even a
little bit, nothing like an idiot ♪
"I'm a real MC. I don't
want to be compared to N.W.A.
I don't need to do that."
♪ Let the rhythm take you,
shake it 'cause it makes you ♪
And he was kind of
like the antidote to that.
♪ Go in like a knot, don't be a puff ♪
♪ And I let it play 'cause
Dre say it funky enough ♪
We were on a roll at the time,
and workin' on two videos,
but he was hangin' out
with this young lady,
havin' this wild sexcapade
with Ecstasy pills.
♪ It's getting funky,
it's getting funky ♪
And he decided he
wanted to drive home...
...still under the influence.
And he fell asleep on the freeway.
His car flipped.
He shot out of the back window.
He bounced up and down on the freeway,
and they found him hanging
off the side of the freeway
from his leather coat,
and his four front teeth were in a tree.
I get a call from Mike Concepcion.
He says, "Listen, man. Your boy got
into a really bad car accident.
He's at Kaiser hospital.
You should go check him out."
I remember walkin' in the room,
in the hospital,
lookin' at him...
in disbelief.
I couldn't even recognize him.
He went through 14 hours
of plastic surgery
to just rebuild his face.
Everything was put back into place.
♪ Yeah! ♪
He looked the same.
Everything was the same,
except for his voice.
His voice was gone.
Drop the lyrics? A'ight.
♪ One, and in comes the two
to the three and four ♪
♪ Then I drop the beat I have in store ♪
♪ Lay dynamics on the top like a rug ♪
♪ Make it sound smooth
and later make a dub ♪
♪ Enunciate well, so that you can tell ♪
♪ I am not illiterate,
no, not even a little bit ♪
♪ Nothing like an idiot ♪
♪ Get it? You want the record?
Cool, I'm with it ♪
♪ Let the rhythm take you,
shake it 'cause it makes you ♪
♪ As I turn the knob to the
door you escape through ♪
♪ Go in like a knot, don't be a puff ♪
♪ And I let it play 'cause
Dre say it funky enough ♪
What's weird is...
Hmm.
What's weird is,
after that record came out
and... and that thing happened,
it was a real problem even listenin'
to that stuff, you know?
'Cause I was pretty good,
you know, back in the days, man.
But my job was just to play my role
to help them build their art.
And I don't think
anybody was in the studio,
besides Dre, more than me.
You know, because I went when he went.
When he went home, I went home.
And when the interviews came
and they would sit down,
I would have to stand just
outside of frame, you know?
And they would talk
about stuff that I wrote.
"Why you gotta call us bitches."
She call... right off,
she callin' herself a bitch.
And I think to myself, "That ain't it.
That ain't why I wrote that."
And I gotta sit in the chair
like... You know?
And it was tough. It's tough.
It was tough for a 19, 20-year-old kid
to have to deal with that emotion.
But doin' my record, it was great.
You know, it was, uh...
I felt validated.
And when they tell you
you're the greatest,
then didn't take me long
before I start...
"Hmm. Maybe I am the greatest."
And so maybe I started
really goin' overboard
then with the excesses.
I had it all.
It was right here. It was right here.
And within...
moments, it was all gone.
I really did love Jimmy,
but I just couldn't be
that person in his life.
There was a lot of
drugs around, you know,
and I was always such a control freak
that it got in the way
of work and things like that.
It, um, it got nuts and...
There was just a point that...
where it was like, "I can't
do this to him anymore.
"If love is love and I love this man,
"and I care about him,
"I cannot morally
hurt him anymore over this.
And this situation is not
gonna get better for a while."
After Stevie and I broke up,
I was really lonely,
and I was freaked out.
I didn't know
what the hell was goin' on.
The '80s were tough for me,
because where I had been
into breaking artists
I had suddenly moved to Dire Straits,
Stevie Nicks and Bob Seger,
which were successful artists.
The A&R guys didn't want
to give me the new artists.
Thought I was too expensive,
thought I would,
you know, take too long.
I have too much to say,
or whatever the stuff is
that people at the labels think.
And maybe rightfully so,
they thought it about me.
So I was really down.
My mother and
I, being at home in New York,
and Jimmy's in California by himself,
we're worried.
Is he eating? Does he have food?
So every vacation
we took was to California.
To support him, or to see
where he was in his career.
Because his success wasn't complete
unless we could enjoy it with him.
And Jimmy liked us around,
because he had somebody
to take care of him.
But when Vicki came into the picture,
she was my mom and I together...
you know, self-sufficient.
She was smart. She was gorgeous.
She was a lawyer
from Cambridge University in England
and Hastings and Berkeley.
And, yeah, she was a Playboy centerfold.
But I like strong personality women.
I like women that have an idea
of how they want to live
and what they want to do.
And she was incredible.
I was at a party,
and there was Jimmy,
and he followed me out,
And he said, "If you give
me your phone number,
and I remember it, can I call you?"
He called me about
10 times the next day,
and he asks me on a date.
And when it was the appointed hour,
a maroon limousine pulls up
in front of my house.
I get in. There's no Jimmy.
But there are napkins
with my name printed on them,
and matches with my name
printed on them.
So I'm thinking, "This is so weird.
Where is this guy?"
And then I realize we're on our way
to his house to pick him up.
That should've been my first indication.
He doesn't want to wait for people.
This is Vicki McCarty
for the Westwood One Satellite Network.
I'm backstage with Bono Vox from U2.
- Could I just correct you there?
- Yeah, I wish you would.
My full name is Paul David Hewson.
People call me Bono.
Should I call you Paul or Bono?
Call me Bono.
♪ Oh ♪
♪ Oh oh oh ♪
♪ I can't believe the news today ♪
♪ I can't close my eyes ♪
♪ And make it go away ♪
♪ How long ♪
♪ How long must we sing this song? ♪
U2 was playing the US Festival.
It was David Bowie, The Clash,
quarter of a million people.
And we were being interviewed
by this rather attractive
Irish-American journalist,
Vicki McCarty.
And she was, like,
pushin' this other dude.
It turns out, her boyfriend, saying,
"You guys were meant for each other."
♪ And bodies strewn across
the dead end street ♪
So I went down there,
and the guy in the front
had that thing that Springsteen had.
He had that edge.
♪ My back up against the wall ♪
♪ Sunday, Bloody Sunday ♪
But just based on
clothes, cars, and hairdo,
there was nothing I was gonna
have in common with Jimmy.
Because we were comin' out of punk rock.
And punk rock was not
about shiny things.
Actually, it was about
defacing shiny things.
And Jimmy was a bit slick for us.
But he... he happens to you.
He's like a virus...
that enters the system uninvited,
takes over all your main organs,
gets to the brain.
It's like, he knows
this is going to work out
well for both of you.
I didn't.
♪ Yeah, give it up ♪
♪ Sunday, Bloody Sunday ♪
And then Jimmy just
chased us around the world
until we agreed to go
into the studio with him.
He would not take no for an answer.
So we did Under a Blood Red Sky.
It was a live album.
And we went to New York
to do the mixing.
And he showed us around New York.
And that's where we really understood
the Italian aspect of him...
the family, the food.
You know, that's when
we realized that really
Irish people are Italians.
It's just we don't eat as well,
we don't dress as well,
we don't play soccer as well.
But we can sing.
♪ Up, up, pull the teeth, black fur ♪
♪ You sin like cinema ♪
♪ Hate that girl ♪
♪ Throw 15 stone and ♪
♪ Why go down, you sing ♪
♪ All your friends are movin' ♪
♪ Can you sing ♪
♪ Hey ♪
♪ Sonya's coming 'round ♪
♪ She's gonna blow your house down ♪
See, you guys are stopping,
and underneath your stop,
Larry is coming in
on the tom-tom, on the bass
drum, starts playing it again,
so it never really stops.
- Yeah.
- I think that could work.
A great idea has a lot in common
with a great melody,
and Jimmy's gift is the clear thought.
But also outside of music,
in the room, the clear thought.
When others hear
harmony or counterpoint,
he hears the clear melody.
So he applies that wherever he is.
Why don't you sing what you
sang me when I first got here?
- Um...
- Do you remember it?
Yeah, well, that was more like...
- It was more like...
- It was a little different than that.
There was a little more to it.
It was more like a... lyrical idea.
It sounded really good.
Bono and I hit it off.
We became friends.
But that was the beginning
of, um, a tough time for me.
Jerry, Yella's on One.
You know, you're talkin'
about the most controversial time
in the history of the music business.
I'm the general manager
of Ruthless Records.
I'm Eazy-E's personal manager.
And it might be oversimplifying
by saying that
I financialize his dreams.
- But probably that's what I do.
- And playback!
Yo, yo, yo!
Yo, we in the house. Eazy and Dr. Dre's
wild and wet pool party,
and we drunk as a motherfucker.
♪ That appetite is tremendous ♪
♪ So I'm gonna spin this ♪
♪ Drop up some violence because
they ax me to end this ♪
♪ Some trouble that I caught
'cause I was noisy ♪
♪ A nigga tried to take advantage ♪
♪ Because of the kamikaze ♪
♪ He took de swing from my
hand, thought I was faded ♪
♪ Start runnin' for the door
but the fucker never made it ♪
♪ The sound of the nine went bang! ♪
It was just the beginnin'
of us makin' some real money,
after years of nickels and dimes.
Now we'd be able to buy houses, cars.
Rich.
That was the first
time we ever had contracts.
But Cube wanted somebody
to look at the paperwork.
I still got me a little Jeep.
I'm at my mother house.
Now, this is when the trouble started.
Ice Cube left in a bitter dispute.
I don't like the manager,
'cause he wasn't payin' me my money.
That's the bottom line. Bottom line.
That's it. No more N.W.A.
No more N.W.A. questions, please.
You're gonna leave?
I got Cube on the phone.
He felt he was gettin' fucked,
and Jerry was the reason for it,
and Eazy was condonin' it.
He was talkin' to me about,
"Dre, you gotta take a look
at your financials, dude."
And then Suge Knight
enters the building.
D.O.C. introduced me to him.
Suge was my guy.
Big-ass dude. Super friendly.
And Suge says, "Let me take you
to this guy. He can help us out."
So Suge took my contracts
to a guy named Dick Griffey.
He started tellin' me
I should be getting
this amount of money,
and this amount of points
for each record.
And you're only getting this.
So I'm, like, "Okay."
Went back to the studio not knowin'
if Eazy knows about this shit or not.
And Eazy is just goin' crazy.
"Fuck Cube this, fuck Cube that."
Somebody start shootin'.
Up until then,
everything that we had done
was like the ultimate brotherhood,
at least, from my perspective.
And all of a sudden,
it just turned into business,
and it turned into pressure.
You know, there was
a lot of distractions,
but to me, Dre had always
seemed driven in the studio.
Had people comin' in
playing bass and instruments,
and so it was a lot more funk to it.
I'm tryin' to prove
myself as an engineer,
as an artist, as a
producer without Cube.
For me, it all became
just a point to make.
Cube was, I'd like to say,
the spirit of N.W.A.
His anti-establishment feel
drove that early sound.
And Cube's our lead guy.
He's gone, so I'm hearin'
different shit around the streets.
"N.W.A. is nothin'. They're gone."
That started touchin'
my ego a little bit.
Find out what's
goin' on on my new solo project.
"AmeriKKKa's Most Wanted."
Ah, Cube in y'all ass, man.
What the fuck y'all gonna do?
Pump It Up was a nationally
syndicated music video show.
I was a fan of the music,
so I wanted to present
that to other fans.
Let's see if success and money
has changed the meanest men in rap.
They agreed to do this interview for me,
'cause it was Dee, their home girl.
And the interview
I wound up doin' with N.W.A....
awkward.
Excuse me. Hi. Is Eazy-E here, N.W.A.?
Hey, what's up, you guys? Come here.
- What's up?
Everybody knows this is Eazy-E.
- Yo!
- Dr. Dre.
From the very moment it started,
the energy was bad.
Wow, it's too quiet.
Y'all gotta wake up. Come on, y'all.
It seemed like with every question,
they found a way
to get verbal jabs at Cube.
Do you guys still
communicate with him or...
- Nah.
- Only time we communicate
is when they have
little run-ins, you know.
So the interview's done,
and it hadn't aired yet.
Next thing I know, my producer
wanted to film Ice Cube's rebuttal
and put it in the show with N.W.A.
Personal beef. Let's... let's
milk this for what it is.
This is Ice Cube on Pump It Up.
I got all suckers 100 miles and running.
Like to give a shout out to the D.O.C.
Y'all can't play me.
That was their mentality,
sensationalism.
Sista Dee, always
in the middle of controversy
right here on Pump It Up.
I was 22 at the time. I'm not Oprah.
I didn't know that there's still more
internal struggles in the group.
Not even after Cube left.
I just figured, "Okay, ego."
But out of four remaining, I was like,
"Hmm. Whose ego is gonna be next?"
The ego was a motherfucker.
It's almost like the little pilot light
and fame is the gasoline.
And once gasoline
gets poured on that ego,
you never know if the pilot
light is gonna go out
or if it's gonna turn
into a motherfuckin' bonfire
or some shit that nobody could control.
I remember, uh, us bein' in the studio
and Dre was tryin' to talk
to E about the money.
And E would always be,
like, "Talk to Jerry."
And Dre don't want to talk to Jerry.
I said, "Listen man.
"Fuck all of this goin' back
and forth shit, man.
Either Jerry goes or I go."
And he looked me in my face and said,
"I can't get rid of Jerry."
That was the end of me
and Eazy-E's relationship.
He had to really trust
Jerry to get rid of Dre.
'Cause Dre was the main ingredient.
The feelin' I had at that moment...
was, um...
similar to losin' a brother.
Seriously broke my heart.
All I remember is
walkin' out of the studio
and everything just bein' a blur.
Like a slow motion walk to that car.
There was so many things goin' on
and all the loss.
It was a terrible space
for me at the time.
And I guess, you know...
a lot of people have
their ways of dealin'
with things of that nature.
I turned to alcohol.
So it was the night
before the American Music Awards.
And, um, it was a Def Jam party.
I spotted Dre. He was drunk.
And I think he looked my way,
but he didn't smile.
And it looked like he wasn't
gonna speak to me at all.
And the next thing I know,
he snatched me up.
When I say he snatched me up,
my feet were off the ground.
It was like, "Shit."
You know, like the strength...
and the rage.
And, uh, you know.
Everybody knows the story from there.
In Los Angeles, Dee Barnes,
host of the Fox TV rap show Pump It Up,
is filing a civil suit against Dr. Dre
and claims that
last January at an LA club,
Dre assaulted her,
grabbing her hair,
slamming her face and body into a wall,
and kicking her in the ribs.
Barnes' attorneys say
that Dre was apparently upset
that one of Barnes' producers
inserted her interview
with ex-N.W.A. member Ice Cube
into a Pump It Up show
last winter featuring N.W.A.
N.W.A.'s independent
publicist says, quote,
"I know Dr. Dre as a gentle soul,
the loving father of a baby boy."
I don't think I was
out of touch with reality,
but I was Dr. Dre,
and this was, uh, a very
low point in my life.
And, um...
I've done a lot of
stupid shit in my life,
a lot of things that I wish
I could go and take back.
I've experienced abuse.
I've, um, watched my mother
get abused, you know?
So, it's like,
there's absolutely no excuse for it.
No woman should ever
be treated that way.
Any man that puts his hands on a female
is a fuckin' idiot.
He's out of his fuckin' mind,
and I was out of my
fuckin' mind at the time.
I fucked up.
I paid for it. I'm sorry for it.
And I apologized for it.
I have this dark cloud that follows me,
and it's gonna be
attached to me forever.
It's a major blemish
on who I am as a man.
And every time it comes up,
it just makes me feel fucked up.
So it's just like, what do I do?
What do I do to get rid
of this dark cloud?
I don't know what else to do.
I'm learnin'.
I'm tryin' to become a better person,
become a better man.
From... from a personal standpoint,
I feel like I've handled it well.
I had to stand up
just because I would probably
never forgive myself if I didn't.
Dee Barnes' civil suit
charges him with assault and battery,
inflicting emotional distress,
and defamation.
Barnes seeks damages over $10 million.
I called the police
on Mr. Fuck Tha Police.
But little by little,
the work started dryin' up.
It was as if I had ruined his career
by being that disturbing
footnote in his legacy.
But, um, I went through the...
the anger and the, uh, the dismay,
and you know, I worked...
I worked those things out,
um, to where... to where
I got to a place of peace.
Forgiveness is about...
It's not really about the other person.
Forgiveness is about... for you.
You do it for yourself,
because what are you
gonna do with all that anger?
Hmm.
In the end,
I've hurt people that I care about,
and for that, I'm really sorry.
In 1984,
I went with my father
to his father's funeral.
And the next morning,
I went back to LA and I get
a phone call from my sister
that my dad had a heart attack.
So I rushed back to New York,
and about six weeks later,
his mother died.
And then two days after that,
or somethin' like that, he died.
And at one moment,
he, his mother and his father
all died within six weeks.
And it was easily
the worst day of my life.
It is still the worst day of my life.
We were very, very close.
I had no idea he was gonna die.
He was my best friend
in the whole world.
I think he still is my best
friend in the whole world.
We were very, very
much in mourning, all of us.
This man of 63 years old,
this firecracker, you know,
was just erased, you know.
So, um, Jimmy and Vicki
decided just to get married.
My father died in January,
and Vicki said,
"Well, with your father gone,
"it will never be a good
time to get married.
Let's just do it."
And she was incredible.
I mean, if... if he didn't
have her there, you know,
with him when my father died,
I don't know what would have happened.
Because it was so devastating to him.
I was sittin' on the floor
of my sister's house.
And I said, "I don't know how
I'm gonna get through this.
I just don't know."
So I thought, I know.
My dad loved that
I was in music, you know?
And he loved Christmas.
I said, I'm gonna make a Christmas album
and dedicate it to him
and give all the money to charity.
Get money out of the equation.
Let's use all of our friends.
Let's do something really powerful.
And it sold so many copies
that over the years,
we gave Special Olympics $100 million.
And to do that for my dad
was just everything to me,
and it really helped me move on.
Though he continued to produce records,
he was getting more and more
involved in business.
And I felt like that was overtaking
the artistic side of him.
Like, he did Graham Parker,
and the guys in his band would tell me,
"Look, when we went to the studio,
he never did anything
but talk on the phone."
And I'm not surprised by that,
because more than one time
I took the scissors,
and just cut his line.
You know, I just pffffff, cut it.
Music, you know, we're doing music.
Jimmy, you got water over there?
Yeah, I'm cool.
And see, that was very
hard for any of us to understand.
How could you possibly be
such a great music producer
and actually want to be in a...
in an office with a desk and a phone?
I don't know. I don't...
I don't look at producing
as like this big thing.
You know, I really consider it a job.
I don't consider it any kind
of great achievement.
I really don't. I never did.
I'm there to help a guy make a record.
And...
anybody wants to work with me,
I think it's a gas.
You know, sometimes I can't believe
they want to work with me, you know?
But I just think it's really cool.
But, I don't know. Anybody
that tells you that, you know,
"I... I... I... I... I did this,
and I did that,"
they... they're full of shit,
because it doesn't exist.
99 percent of what's goin' on
is the artist in the studio.
I gotta tell you somethin'.
I wish that I was someone who said,
"Wow, I'm doing this." You know?
It would've been a lot more fun for me.
But I was focused and miserable.
I was working 24 hours a day.
I never did anything other than work.
I didn't want to do
anything other than work.
I didn't feel as natural
as I felt in the '70s.
When I walk into a room,
I knew exactly what to do.
Now all of a sudden,
I was feelin' off balance.
Well, you ran out of
tape there, didn't you, Jimmy?
Yeah, we want you to have, uh,
30 seconds of that, uh,
last ending. That's why
when I came out here,
we started again, and...
- Okay.
- I think we can just fix it.
Okay. We got one more
and we call it a day on this song.
Okay.
I think Rattle & Hum
was Jimmy's last stand.
I think we broke him.
We did two albums, and a movie.
And we went on the road
and recorded 18 shows.
And those guys,
they worked like Springsteen.
They just go.
There was a song on
Rattle & Hum called "Hawkmoon,"
and we did 269 takes.
We actually wore the tape out.
That's never happened.
We wore out the tape.
And he's like...
It's hard to be around artists.
You can only do it
for a certain amount of time.
And U2 can be very, very wearing.
We... we're just... we just go too far.
At that moment,
I just needed to stop.
I didn't want to see a studio.
I was done.
♪ I wanna run ♪
♪ I want to hide ♪
♪ I wanna tear down the walls ♪
♪ That hold the insides ♪
♪ I wanna reach out ♪
♪ And touch the flame ♪
♪ Where the streets have no name ♪
♪ Ah ha ♪
♪ Oh, we're beaten
and blown by the wind ♪
♪ Blown by the wind ♪
♪ And when I go there ♪
♪ I go there with you ♪
♪ It's all I can do ♪
Jimmy's heart was in business.
He had a calling,
just like you have a calling
to be a preacher.
His calling was to be
a great businessman.
And that's what happened.
Meantime, speaking of N.W.A.,
their new album Niggaz 4 Life
recently entered the Billboard
chart at number two,
then went to number one,
and has already gone
gold in less than a month,
with no radio or video support.
Nineteen ninety-muthafuckin'-one.
♪ N.W.A. back in this motherfucker, yo ♪
♪ Takin' out all you
commercialized ass niggaz ♪
♪ And we on this laid back track ♪
♪ And we doin' this one kinda smooth ♪
♪ So whatcha gonna do, Dre, kick it ♪
♪ And so on, let the shit flow on ♪
♪ Because I need somethin'
to go off on ♪
♪ The motherfucking D-R-E ♪
♪ Servin' a death wish ♪
♪ So I'm a hit you like this ♪
♪ Early in the morning
hop into the BNZ ♪
♪ I got 44 ways of gettin' paid ♪
♪ Sittin' in my lap as I
roll off the Compton blocks ♪
♪ To scoop up Ren, I heard shots ♪
♪ One, two, three ♪
This is the number one
album in the United States.
And, uh, this is
the filthiest album ever
in the history of the Billboard
charts to go to number one.
And they call their
number one album Niggaz 4 Life.
If you consider that
offensive, brace yourself.
You may be in for a shock.
So popular, it became
the best-selling album
in the whole country last week,
even though MTV banned it,
and most radio stations
have refused to play it.
♪ NWA has one goal ♪
We broke up at number one.
We was plannin' to go on a tour too,
and that never even happened.
Outsiders.
Everybody had their
own little clicks around 'em,
groupies or whatever
you want to call 'em,
in everybody ear.
Other people's tellin' people
you should get this,
that, that, you know, just...
Gassin' everybody up.
That was just the demise of everything.
Everything was just fallin' apart.
This whole thing was never about money.
It was always fun.
Money only ruined it.
So, after I left Ruthless Records,
it was like, here I go again.
I'm out on my own.
I gotta start over.
I don't know what I'm gonna do.
I don't know where I'm gonna do it,
and I have nothin'.
Not too long after leavin' Eazy,
I hooked up with D.O.C.
So, I say to Dre,
"Suge Knight and I are tryin'
to put together a record label.
"This guy's a good guy. He can help us.
We got a chance to go
do our own thing now."
I remember them takin' me on a tour
of the Solar Records building.
On one floor, there was
these lawyers offices.
And in the third floor,
there was this big rehearsal hall
that was all decked out.
And then down the hall,
I found the first love of my life.
The SSL Board.
The mixin' board that I had
always dreamed of workin' on.
That's how they got me.
Synced & corrected by kinglouisxx
www.addic7ed.com
♪ Wake up, jumped out my bed ♪
♪ I'm in a two-man cell ♪
♪ With my homie Lil' 1/2 Dead ♪
♪ Murder was the case
that they gave me ♪
♪ Dear God, I wonder, can you save me? ♪
♪ I'm only 18, so I'm a young buck ♪
♪ It's a ride, if I don't
scrap, I'm getting stuck ♪
♪ But that's the life of a G, I guess ♪
♪ Ese's way deep,
shanked two in they chest ♪
♪ Best run 'cause
brothers is dropping quicker ♪
♪ Uh, too late, damn,
down goes another nigga ♪
♪ Bouncing off the walls,
throwing them dogs ♪
♪ Getting a rep as a young hog ♪
♪ It ain't nothin'
like the street life ♪
♪ You better be strapped
with your shank ♪
♪ 'Cause ain't no fistfight ♪
♪ So I guess I gots to handle mine ♪
♪ Since I did the crime,
I gots to do my time ♪
♪ Them say me grow up
to be nothing, look at me now ♪
♪ And tell me what you see
I am what I am ♪
♪ It's only me ♪
♪ Little ghetto boy ♪
♪ Playing in the ghetto streets ♪
♪ Whatcha gonna do when you grow up ♪
♪ And have to face ♪
♪ Responsibility? ♪
♪ Now I'm holding a dub ♪
♪ Sittin' on swoll ♪
♪ 27 years old ♪
♪ Up for parole ♪
♪ Stroll ♪
♪ I'm back up on my feet
with my mind on the money ♪
♪ That I'll be making soon
as I touch the streets ♪
♪ Things done changed on this side ♪
♪ Remember they used to thump
but now they blast, right ♪
♪ But it ain't no thang to me ♪
♪ 'Cause now I'm what they call
a loced-assed OG ♪
♪ The little homies
from the hood with grip ♪
♪ Are the ones I get with
'cause I'm down to set trip ♪
♪ Nigga, I'm bigger than you,
so what'cha wanna do? ♪
♪ Didn't know he had a .22 ♪
♪ Straight sitting behind his back ♪
♪ I grabbed his pockets
and then I heard six caps ♪
♪ I fell to the ground
with blood on my hands ♪
♪ I didn't understand ♪
♪ How a nigga so young
could bust a cap ♪
♪ I used to be the same way back ♪
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org